# Documentation for Polyas Core 3 Verifiable

This repository contains documentation for the _Polyas Core 3
Verifiable_ election system.

Polyas Core 3 Verifiable is an online voting system aimed at high
security requirements, including end-to-end verifiability. It supports
the following security features:

* **Universally verifiable tallying**, based on verifiable mixing and
  verifiable decryption, using state-of-the art cryptographic
  techniques, such as zero-knowledge proofs.

* **Eligibility verifiability**. Voters’ credentials are generated by an
  entity designated by the Election Council. They are then distributed
  to the voters (using, for instance, a secure printing facility). The
  secret voters' credentials are then used to digitally sign the
  ballots, so that it can be verified that all ballots have been created
  by authorized voters.

* **Individual/cast-as-intended verifiability** based on the use of a
  second device by the voter (this mechanism is optional and not
  described in this document).

* **Distributed key generation and threshold decryption** (optional).
  For higher ballot privacy guarantees, the secret election key can be
  shared by multiple independent parties which need then to jointly
  participate in the decryption of the shuffled ballots.  
  *Note: this variant is not described in the documentation listed below.*

### The content of this repository

 * [POLYAS 3.0 Verifiable E-Voting System (pdf)](pdf/polyas3.0-verifiable.pdf)

   This document offers a detailed, protocol-level description of a
   variant of the POLYAS 3.0 E-Voting System that features universal
   verifiability and optional individual verifiability (cast-as-intended)
   through the use of a secondary voter device.
   The document details the protocol structure and the intended security
   properties. It assigns specific tasks to the Election Council, the entity
   responsible for organizing and overseeing the election process, to support
   various security aspects, such as universal verifiability. Additionally, a
   detailed specification of the verification procedure is provided.

   The described variant does not include key sharing and distributed decryption.

 * [Polyas-Core3 Second Device Protocol](cai/second-device-spec.md)
   | [Snapshot PDF v1.1](pdf/second-device-spec.pdf)

   This document provides an overview of the ballot audit protocol and details
   required for implementing an independent ballot audit application,
   compatible with the Polyas Core 3 Verifiable version as documented in the
   [POLYAS 3.0 Verifiable E-Voting System](pdf/polyas3.0-verifiable.pdf)
   (see above).  The ballot audit process described in this document instantiates
   the method presented in [[Johannes Müller and Tomasz Truderung, _A Protocol
   for Cast-as-Intended Verifiability with a Second Device_,
   arxiv:2304.09456]](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09456).


 ### Other relevant documentation (external links)


  * Johannes Müller and Tomasz Truderung, _A Protocol for Cast-as-Intended Verifiability with a Second Device_,
  [arxiv:2304.09456](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09456)
  (also published [here](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-031-43756-4_8)).

  
